# Making bigger strides

Very rarely, when editing text, are you concerned with the _individual characters_. More often, you're interested in the larger _structure_ that those characters represent. It's far more efficient to think in terms of words, sentences, and paragraphs instead of individual characters.

Luckily, Vim has commands that can help us here.

## Words

In terms of words, Vim offers the following commands:

- `w` for jumping forward by a word
- `b` for jumping to the beginning of the current word (or the beginning of the next word if you're already there)
- `e` for jumping to the end of the current word (or the end of the next word if you're already there)

## WORDS

That's not a typo. Vim makes a distinction between 'words' and 'WORDS'. Without getting to deep into the details, a 'word' generally represents what you might think intuitively as a word. A 'WORD', on the other hand, is consists entirely of _non-blank_ characters.

The motions for WORDS are just the uppercase of the word motions.

- `W` for jumping forward by a word
- `B` for jumping to the beginning of the current word (or the beginning of the next word if you're already there)
- `E` for jumping to the end of the current word (or the end of the next word if you're already there)

## Sentences

If you are a writer, you'll surely find this handy. You can use `(` and `)` to jump forward and backward between sentences.

## Paragraphs

You can use `{` and `}` to jump forward and backwards between paragraphs. This doesn't just mean paragraphs of prose, though — it's really useful for jumping around blocks of code if you're a software engineer.

Give these commands a try in the editor!
