# Windows are a viewport into a buffer

Before we dive in, I want to add a small warning: Vim's system of buffers, windows, and tabs is probably quite different to what you're used to in other text editors. But as you learn more, you'll realise that _Vim does it better_. It's well worth learning this stuff.

A brief word to the wise: try to forget what you already know about how files/windows/tabs work in your current text editor — trying to reconcile this with what Vim offers will make things harder!

Recall: in the last lesson we learned that a buffer is the _in-memory text of a file_. Vim lets us have multiple buffers open simultaneously, which allows us to work on multiple files in the same editing session.

Closely related to buffers is the idea of _windows_. A window is a _viewport into a single buffer_. It's the "thing" that we're looking through to see the contents of our file. If you can see text on the screen — congratulations! You're looking at a _buffer_ through a _window_.

Up until now, we've been working with just one window that fills up the whole screen — but we aren't limited to this. Vim lets us divide up the available screen space into many windows, each one peering into a different buffer. You can use this to keep multiple files open on the screen at the same time!

As our first step, let's try something simple: opening an existing file on disk in a new (horizontally split) window.

**In the editor, the file that's currently open is called `demo`.** There is another file on disk called `myfile`. To open it in a split, type `:split myfile`. You should see the two files open at the same time in two windows — one on top of the other!
