# The most important thing to remember

I want you to remember one mapping for _practically all window operations in Vim_: `<C-w>` (control W) in normal mode.

But before we continue, a small warning: if you're on an operating system where `<C-w>` closes the current browser tab (like Windows), _don't press it_ — you'll end up closing the current lesson! I would recommend setting up a _new map_ to `<C-w>` inside the editor so that you can continue this lesson without disruption. Something like `:nnoremap W <C-w>` should do the trick, which will map the `W` (shift w) key to function the same way as `<C-w>`. It's a bit of a kludgy work around... but I haven't figured out a way to get it working just yet!

With that out of the way, let's get on with the lesson.

Using `<C-w>` in normal mode, you can:

- create new windows both horizontally (`<C-w>s`) and vertically (`<C-w>v`)
- close windows you don't need any more (`<C-w>c`)
- navigate between windows
- move windows around to create a different layout
- resize windows

... basically everything you'll ever need!

**Let's try some `<C-w>` maps in the editor!** We already know how to create new windows with the `:split` and `:vsplit` commands — and we also know that we can use `:q` and `:close` to close any windows that we no longer need. This time, instead of using the commands, lets use the `<C-w>` maps instead.

We're going to create and close some windows as before, but this time:

- instead of using `:split` to open a new horizontal split, try using `<C-w>s`!
- instead of using `:vsplit` to open a new vertical split, try using `<C-w>v`!
- instead of using `:q`/`:close` to close a window, try using `<C-w>c`!
