# Resizing windows

You can resize windows so that they fit your preferences.

The first thing to know is that the `<C-w>` bindings for creating windows accept counts, which you can use to set the size of the new window right from the get. For example `<C-w>80s` (or `80<C-w>s` if you prefer — there's no difference) will open up a new horizontal split that's 80 characters high. You can do the same with `<C-w>v` — so `<C-w>80v` or `80<C-w>v` — to open up a new vertical split that's 80 characters wide.

If you want to resize windows _after_ creating them, no problem — here are the bindings to know:
- `[count]<C-w>>` increases the width of the current window by `[count]` columns.
- `[count]<C-w><` decreases the width of the current window by `[count]` columns.
- `[count]<C-w>+` increases the height of the current window by `[count]` rows.
- `[count]<C-w>-` decreases the height of the current window by `[count]` rows.

I personally find the bindings above a _little_ bit fiddly though. Most of the time I find myself reaching for these ones instead:

- `[count]<C-w>|` to set the _width_ of the window to a fixed number of columns, `[count]`. If you don't specify a count, Vim will maximise the window width as much as possible.
- `[count]<C-w>_` to set the _height_ of the window to a fixed number of lines, `[count]`. If you don't specify a count, Vim will maximise the window height as much as possible.

Finally — and this is a **really useful one**, so write this down! — `<C-w>=` will automatically resize all of your windows to sensible defaults in case you want to reset everything.

There are a lot of bindings for resizing windows! It kind of makes sense — there are lots of ways that windows can be resized.

In your local instance of Vim, you'll be able to enable mouse support with `set mouse+=a`, which makes window resizing intuitive. Unfortunately you can't do this in the embedded editor right now because it doesn't support it yet — sorry about that!

**Let's try resizing some windows in the editor**. Try:

- creating some windows with a pre-determined size with `[count]<C-w>s` and `[count]<C-w>v`
- resizing some existing windows with `[count]<C-w>>`, `[count]<C-w><`, `[count]<C-w>+`, and `[count]<C-w>-`
- setting the size of some window with `[count]<C-w>|` and `[count]<C-w><`, `[count]<C-w>+`, and `[count]<C-w>-`
- getting back to some sensible default window sizes with `<C-w>=`
