# Undo branches

The `u` and `<C-r>` keys are useful if you consider your undo history to be _linear_. But in actual fact, it's not always that simple. Sometimes, you undo a few steps, then start writing again. In other editors, this would destroy your redo history, making the text you had _before_ the undo completely irrecoverable.

Vim keeps track of undo _branches_, so you'll never find yourself in this situation.

This is best illustrated with an example. Let's say you have an empty document, and you start writing a sentence:

    Hello, this is my first sentence!

Then, you decide to write another sentence:

    Hello, this is my first sentence! This is my second sentence!

You then decide you don't want the second sentence, so you undo your change:

    Hello, this is my first sentence!

You then write something else:

    Hello, this is my first sentence! Now there's something else!

If you then decide you want to recover the "And this is my second sentence" text, we're in a bit of a sticky situation. No amount of `u` and `<C-r>` can recover it!

**Try this workflow for yourself in the editor**, and verify that I'm telling the truth.

Now, luckily, Vim provides us with another way to undo and redo. Vim keeps track of the way that changes _branch_ in the undo history, and we can use the `g-` and `g+` commands to go to older and newer text states respectively.

**Try using the `g-` and `g+` commands yourself in the editor.** You should see that it's actually possible to recover the lost text!

The details of how `g-` and `g+` work under the hood are quite complex, but you should know that you've never really _lost_ your text in Vim. If you keep hitting `g-`, you'll find it eventually.
