# Acting on the surrounding lines

The Ex command given to Vim's global command works in the exact same way as if you had specified it on Vim's command line. `:global` will execute the command _verbatim_. If you specify an _address_ or a _range_, it'll be accounted for.

This means that the global command is not limited to _just_ acting on the matching line. It can act on the surrounding _range_ of lines, or even a completely different line/region entirely. This is where the power of this command _really_ shines, and not many Vim users are aware that this is possible.

We know the core mechanics of `:global` by now, so let us learn by example.

## Delete all paragraphs containing the word `foo`

Here's how you do it:

```
:g/foo/'{+,'}d
```

Here, the `:g/foo` part is saying 'find all of the lines that contain `foo`'. The command part is using two of Vim's special marks, `'{` and `'}`, which specify the start and the end of the current paragraph respectively. `'{+,'}` is specifying the surrounding paragraph as range, then the `d` is deleting it. So the above command is deleting all paragraphs that contain the word `foo`.

## Print all functions in the current buffer

Here's how you do it:

```
:g/^func/,/^}$/p
```

Here, the `:g/^func` part is saying 'find all of the lines that start with `func`'. The `,/}$/` part is specifying a range that captures from the current line to the next line that contains only a `}` — this range is approximating a function definition in a language like Go. The `p` part is just saying 'print this range' (and is optional, as we know).

## Print the signature of functions using `var`

Here's how you do it:

```
:g/var/?^func?;p
```

Here, the `:g/var` part is saying 'find all of the lines that contain `var`'. The `?^func?;` part is saying 'from those lines, search backwards for the nearest line that starts with func and change to it'. The `p` part is just saying 'print that line'. Note that if a function contains the string 'var' multiple times, you'll get multiple entries in your output.

**Let's try**. In the editor on the right, try print the _path_ of all _GET_ requests. There is more than one way to do this. One way is `:g/GET/?path?p` — see if you can come up with another!
