# General advice on creating maps

Vim maps are extremely powerful, but as we know, with great power comes great responsibility!

When beginner Vimmers first discover maps, they tend to go crazy with them and create them for absolutely everything. There's _nothing wrong with this_, but you should be aware of the trade offs if this is the path you decide to follow.

Here's some general advice I'd like to pass on. Keep in mind that all of the points below are my _personal_ opinion — other Vimmers might disagree.

## Don't create maps that override the defaults

Generally speaking, you should try to avoid overriding Vim's built-in functionality with your own mappings — even the built-ins that you _think_ you'll never use. The reasoning is:

- Vim has plenty of key combinations that are _unbound_, making them a sensible choice for new keymaps
- even if you think you'll _never_ use a built-in keymap, trust me: _you probably will_, especially as you become more adept with the editor

We're going to learn how we can avoid overriding built-in maps in the coming sections.

## ... unless the default keymap has _synonyms_

The exception to the rule above is if the built-in keymap has synonyms — that is, other keymaps which do the exact same thing. In that case, it's usually fine to override one of the alternatives. For example, `Q` and `gQ` do the _exact same thing_ in Vim — they drop you into Ex mode, which isn't particularly useful in this day and age anyway (so we're not going to discuss it here). In this situation, I think it's fair game to override `Q`, because:

- you're unlikely to be using Ex mode anyways — practically no Vim users use it any more
- if you ever _do_ need to access Ex mode, you can just use `gQ`

There's no hard and fast rule, but as you learn more about Vim, your judgement will improve.

## Don't create overly-complicated maps

If you have a complex operation you want to give a keymap, it's tempting to write a really long mapping that does it for you. For example:

    nnoremap \s mmgg/import<cr>vip:sort<cr>`m

That mapping tries to sort the imports at the top of the file. It works, but it's pretty long and ugly. If you find yourself writing maps like this, then it's probably time to stop and rethink. Nine times out of ten, you're better off writing a Vimscript function for this type of thing.

## Try to avoid side effects

Try to avoid making your maps:

- quietly overwrite the contents of registers
- quietly overwrite marks

This will cause you confusion down the line.
