# Leader isn't the only option

The usual advice is to use `<leader>` for custom-defined mappings, but it's not the only option. There are lots of key combinations that are not bound to any built-in functionality, and you're free to attach your mappings to any of these.

## The `Z` key

The `Z` key is massively underutilised, making it a great place to make your custom maps. The only two built-in maps you need to be aware of are:

- `ZZ` writes the current file if it has been modified, then closes the current window — the same as `:x`
- `ZQ` quits Vim without checking for changes — the same as `:q!`

Every other key combination starting with `Z` is unused, so you can use `Z` as another prefix for your custom maps.

## Tucking your maps behind an operator

In a previous lesson, we talked about Vim's command language — recall that the general structure of a normal mode command is:

    [count]{operator}{text object/motion}

Something that we didn't mention earlier is that hitting the `{operator}` key (for example, `d`, `c`, or `y`) actually puts Vim into a special mode called operator pending mode. In this mode, Vim waits for you to input a text object or a motion (like `a"`, `ip`, etc).

If the keys that you press in operator pending mode don't correspond to a valid text object or motion, _Vim simply does nothing_. So, there are hundreds of empty unused maps hiding behind the operator keys!

For example: `yp`, `du`, `cx`, and `da.` are all unmapped — and there are hundreds more. You can use any of these maps without worrying about overriding built-in Vim functionality.
